***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer: to increase the efficiency and performance of an application by organizing the data in such a manner that
 it requires less space with higher processing speed

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer: Traversing, searching, inserting,  deleting, sorting, merging.

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer: it depends on what are we trying to do for example internet requests and processes use queue, Forward-backward
 surfing in the browser uses stack ...

What is an Array?
Answer: is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type and the length is established when
 we create an array.

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer: array is fixed in length and contains only homogeneous data whereas arraylist  is a variable-length Collection
 class which means its length is dynamic ans stores heterogeneous data

What is a LinkedList?
Answer: is a sequence of data structures, which are connected together via links. Linked List is a sequence of links
 which contains items. Each link contains a connection to another link.

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer:  An array is a grouping of data elements of equivalent data type. A linked list is a group of entities called
 a node. The node includes two segments: data and address.

What is a Queue?
Answer: is an ordered list of elements. Java Queue follows FIFO order to insert and remove its elements.

What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Answer:  is a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure. It supports two basic operations called push and pop. The push
 operation adds an element at the top of the stack, and the pop operation removes an element from the top of the stack.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer: First In First Out we use it in Queues
        Last In Last Out we use it n stacks

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer: Big O Notation is a way to measure an algorithm's efficiency. It measures the time it takes to run your
function as the input grows

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer: when the element is present at the index 0.

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: when the element is present at the index (array.length -1).

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer: is non-linear and a hierarchical data structure consisting of a collection of nodes such that each node of
the tree stores a value and a list of references to other nodes ("children")

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer: is a non-linear kind of data structure made up of nodes or vertices and edges. The edges connect any two
nodes in the graph.

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer: HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values whereas Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value
and hashtable support synchronization (thread-safe) whereas hashmap support multi-threading which provides faster
performance.

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer:- works on hashing principles. It is a data structure that allows us to store object and retrieve it in
constant time O(1)
       - they store values in pairs : key-value
       - when unique keys are available for the data we want to store and when searching for items based on a key and
       quick access time is an important requirement.



What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer: is a runtime exception in Java that occurs when an array is accessed with an illegal index. The index is
either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer: Iterating each element of the given original array and copy one element at a time.
        Using clone() method.
        Using arraycopy() method.
        Using copyOf() method of Arrays class.
        Using copyOfRange() method of Arrays class.

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer: DFS (Depth First Search) is an algorithm for finding or traversing graphs or trees in depth-ward direction.
The execution of the algorithm begins at the root node and explores each branch before backtracking. It uses a stack
data structure to remember, to get the subsequent vertex, and to start a search
        BFS (Breadth First Search) is an algorithm that is used to graph data or searching tree or traversing structures.
         The algorithm efficiently visits and marks all the key nodes in a graph in an accurate breadthwise fashion.
What is Recursion?
Answer: Recursion is the technique of making a function call itself

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer: In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every element is
attached to its previous and next adjacent.
 In a non-linear data structure, the data elements connect to each other hierarchically. Thus, they are present at various levels.

Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:
Selection Sort: Ω(n^2)
Insertion Sort: Ω(n)
Bubble Sort: Ω(n)
Tree Sort: 	Ω(n log(n))
Heapsort: Ω(n log(n))
Mergesort: Ω(n log(n))